---
layout: post-special
title: Call for Proposals
meta: Information about submitting a talk to GORUCO 2012.
author: GORUCO
---

The Gotham Ruby Conference, a one-day, single-track event in New York City, is now accepting proposal papers. **GORUCO will be held on Saturday, June 23rd 2012** at the Altman building in the Flatiron District of Manhattan.

GORUCO is a technical conference aimed at highly motivated programmers interested in all things Ruby. You’ll spend the day among leading Rubyists, innovators and developers in New York City, home of Silicon Alley. Past topics have ranged from pragmatic new approaches to design and testing, to pioneering language application and far-reaching abstractions.

**This year we will be accepting two talk formats, a 45 minute full-length talk or a 10 minute micro talk.** We will have around 7 - 10 slots, depending on the quantity and quality of the proposals we receive.

### Full-length talks

The majority of the day’s content will be full-length talks. Each of these speakers will receive:

* Free attendance to the event.
* A $300 honorarium.
* A $600 travel reimbursement if you live outside of the tri-state region.

Talks should be at most 40 minutes long, including time for questions and discussion.

### Micro talks
In addition to our full-length talks we will be accepting a handful of 10 minute micro talks. Each of these speakers will receive free attendance to the event.

###Local Talent
GORUCO believes in highlighting local talent. **We reserve at least two slots for local speakers.** Individual talks will be considered local if at least half of the participants are from the tri-state region - that is, within typical commuting distance of Manhattan. In the past, these slots have been less competitive than the other talk slots, so if you live in the tri-state region we strongly urge you to submit a proposal.

###Video
We will be videotaping all the talks and making this video freely available online. You should be okay with this if you are submitting a talk.

###Annotation
All proposals must specify exactly who will be presenting. For example, we will not accept proposals from companies unless they specify who will be presenting on behalf of the company. Presentations may be given by more than one person, but multiple speakers will split the honorarium and travel reimbursement.

###Submit Talk
**Please submit all proposals through the form below by 11:59:59.0 PM ET on April 26th, 2012.**

If you have any questions about the proposal process or other conference related questions, please email <a href="mailto:info@goruco.com">info@goruco.com</a>. For more information about the conference itself, check the conference website or follow <a href="http://www.twitter.com/goruco" target="blank">@GORUCO</a> on Twitter for updates.

<div id="wufoo-m7x3p9">
Fill out my <a href="http://goruco.wufoo.com/forms/m7x3p9">online form</a>.
</div>
<script type="text/javascript">var m7x3p9;(function(d, t) {
var s = d.createElement(t), options = {
'userName':'goruco',
'formHash':'m7x3p9',
'autoResize':true,
'height':'1182',
'async':true,
'header':'hide'};
s.src = ('https:' == d.location.protocol ? 'https://' : 'http://') + 'wufoo.com/scripts/embed/form.js';
s.onload = s.onreadystatechange = function() {
var rs = this.readyState; if (rs) if (rs != 'complete') if (rs != 'loaded') return;
try { m7x3p9 = new WufooForm();m7x3p9.initialize(options);m7x3p9.display(); } catch (e) {}};
var scr = d.getElementsByTagName(t)[0], par = scr.parentNode; par.insertBefore(s, scr);
})(document, 'script');</script>
