---
layout: speaker-header
title: Paul Dix
meta: "Collective Intelligence: Leveraging User Data to Create Intelligent Rails Applications"
desc: Take advantage of user data to create intelligent applications. This talk will focus on data mining to create complex application behavior and gain insight into the patterns and habits of your users.
image: /images/speakers/2008/paul_dix.jpg
author: GORUCO
year: 2008
---

<iframe width="700" height="394" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/dNzA5Yygm5U?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

###Talk Description

Take advantage of user data to create intelligent applications. This
talk will focus on data mining to create complex application behavior
and gain insight into the patterns and habits of your users. Examples
of these techniques can be seen with recommendation systems like those
created by Amazon, Netflix, last.fm, and others. Additional examples
include spam filtering systems for email or comment filtering provided
by Akismet.


We will focus on techniques for gathering data, specific gems and
plugins for performing various data mining and machine learning tasks,
and performance issues like how to distribute the work to separate
servers. Theory in this talk will be light and the specific algorithms
will only get a mention by name. We&#8217;ll be looking at real world Ruby
and Rails code examples for building recommendation, ranking, and
classification systems.

###Bio

[Paul Dix](http://www.pauldix.net) has been working with Ruby and Rails since 2005 when he first
started attending meetings at <span class="caps">NYC</span>.rb. Paul was a speaker at GoRuCo
2007 where he presented on the topic of document classification. He is
also the author of the Basset Ruby Gem, which provides an <span class="caps">API</span> for
various machine learning tasks. Paul has worked in companies large and
small as a consultant, developer, network engineer, and software
tester. The big names include Google, Microsoft, McAfee, and Air Force
Space Command. He currently works for Mint Digital where he
contributes to various Rails applications for clients and Mint&#8217;s Rails
application platform. In addition to his consulting, Paul is working
on a new startup that makes use of collective intelligence techniques.
He is also currently a student at Columbia University where he studies
topics in machine learning, natural language processing, information
retrieval, and search.</p>


